---
layout: post
title: My Name
comments: true
published: true
tags: 
    - thoughts
---
Growing up, I was at war with two words: "Thị Hồng." They're the middle names in my full Vietnamese name, Vũ Thị Hồng Linh, and for the longest time, I hated them.

Looking back, I think the reason was pretty simple: I wanted to be a cool kid. To my childhood ears, "Thị" sounded old-fashioned. It was the kind of name people joked about. And then there was "Hồng." Why would I want my name to be associated with the color pink? In my mind, a cool kid could never have a name that sounded so traditional, so feminine, so... uncool.

As I grew older, I discovered another possibility: English names. In one of my English classes, I learned that people could have an "English name," and I immediately wanted one. My teacher gave me the name Kate. Later, I created my first Facebook account as Linda Vu, because Linda felt somewhat close to Linh. During high school and college, I even went by Alana on professional platforms like LinkedIn. At the time, it felt completely normal. Plenty of people had alternative names. Why shouldn't I?

Then I moved to the United States. To my surprise, I realized I didn't actually need an English name. "Linh" turned out to be much easier for foreigners to pronounce than I had imagined. Most people had no trouble saying it. Occasionally, someone would assume I was Chinese and write my name as Lin or Lee, while turning my last name into Yu. Starbucks employees came up with all sorts of creative spellings, like Liah.

But honestly, I didn't mind. Somewhere along the way, I stopped feeling the need to introduce myself as someone else.

These days, I simply go by Linh Vu. And strangely, that gives me a stronger sense of identity than any English name ever did. I no longer feel like I'm translating myself or performing a version of myself that I think others would find easier to accept. Maybe that's what changed.

When I was younger, I thought a name was something you could swap out like a nickname or a username. Now, I see a name is not a person's label, but rather a piece of where you come from. It's a story. It's an identity. And after spending years trying out different names, I find myself returning to the one I started with.


